packages/mongo-schema/docs/index/functions/closeClient.md, before:

[**@-xun/mongo-schema**](../../README.md)

***

[@-xun/mongo-schema](../../README.md) / [index](../README.md) / closeClient

# Function: closeClient()

> **closeClient**(`__namedParameters`): `Promise`\<`void`\>

Defined in: [packages/mongo-schema/src/index.ts:133](https://github.com/Xunnamius/mongo-utils/blob/7b25b3728184acdc4dd308dd54ecbebd6fc132bd/packages/mongo-schema/src/index.ts#L133)

Kills the MongoClient instance and any related database connections and
clears shared memory.

If `clearCache` is `true` (default), internal shared memory will be cleared
when this function is called. Set this to `false` if invoking this function
anywhere other than at the top level of an application. Libraries meant to be
invoked by such applications should be wary when using this function to clear
shared memory since there could be multiple instances of this package in
memory that could be relying upon it.

## Parameters

### \_\_namedParameters

#### clearCache?

`boolean` = `true`

## Returns

`Promise`\<`void`\>

Commit message:

release: @-xun/mongo-schema@1.5.0 [skip ci]
## ✨ Features

- **packages/mongo-schema:** allow `closeClient` to optionally kill all clients across all tenants in a multitenancy context ([22de939][2])

[1]: https://github.com/Xunnamius/mongo-utils/compare/@-xun/mongo-schema@1.4.0...@-xun/mongo-schema@1.5.0
[2]: https://github.com/Xunnamius/mongo-utils/commit/22de939f192fb2c686749b8a378c031c83e2b0b0

packages/mongo-schema/docs/index/functions/closeClient.md, after:

[**@-xun/mongo-schema**](../../README.md)

***

[@-xun/mongo-schema](../../README.md) / [index](../README.md) / closeClient

# Function: closeClient()

> **closeClient**(`__namedParameters`): `Promise`\<`void`\>

Defined in: [packages/mongo-schema/src/index.ts:140](https://github.com/Xunnamius/mongo-utils/blob/22de939f192fb2c686749b8a378c031c83e2b0b0/packages/mongo-schema/src/index.ts#L140)

Kills the MongoClient instance and any related database connections and
clears shared memory.

If `clearCache` is `true` (default), internal shared memory will be cleared
when this function is called.

Set `clearCache` to `false` if invoking this function anywhere other than at
the top level of an application. Libraries meant to be invoked by such
applications should be wary when using this function to clear shared memory
since there could be multiple instances of this package in memory that could
be relying upon it.

Set `clearCache` to `'all-tenants'` in a multitenancy scenario when invoking
this function outside of an async context with the goal of closing all
clients across all tenants.

## Parameters

### \_\_namedParameters

#### clearCache?

`boolean` \| `"all-tenants"` = `true`

**Default**

```ts
true
```

## Returns

`Promise`\<`void`\>
